- [Instructor] We have just enough groundwork at this point
to start a new project.
So let's do that using the Spring Initializr.
Now there are several ways
to start a spring boot application,
and while start.spring.io, or the Spring Initializr,
isn't my preferred choice,
it is the most universal way of doing this.
For the rest of this course,
if I create an application,
I'm going to use an ID plugin
that leverages the web service that backs this page,
but for now let's just fire up a browser and get started.
The first thing that we're going to do
is we're going to navigate to start.spring.io.,
and you'll see that this fires up the Spring Initializr.
Now, we're going to be offered several options here
to go through.
First, under Project we will pick Maven Project.
Then for Language we are going to select Java.
Now, when we get down to Spring Boot,
we're going to be presented with several versions.
Now your version list may look a little bit different
based on when you watch this video,
but this course is designed for the 2.X line,
so we're going to pick the most recent 2.X line
that is past release candidate,
which at this point in time is 2.5.6.
Now, we will enter in a group,
and if you've ever done Maven development for Java,
this should all look very familiar.
So I'm going to do com.frankmoley.lil for LinkedIn Learning,
and we will then
create an artifact called learning-spring,
and the name is fine.
We don't need to put in a description or anything like that.
What we have is perfectly sufficient.
We are going to package this as a Jar file.
And as I mentioned,
we're going to use Java 17.
Now, if you need to use Java 11,
perfectly fine.
All of the examples will work under Java 11.
I'm just choosing 17 because that's the most recent
that isn't a long-term release.
Now we need to pick some dependencies to add.
So up here I'm going to select Add Dependencies,
and I'm going to type in Web.
And for right now,
that's the only dependency that we are going to add,
but I encourage you to look through this list
because later in the course,
we will be adding things that could be added now
through this list.
Once that is all entered,
I'm going to to click Generate.
And my machine is going to take the zip file
that was just created,
and download it into my Downloads Directory.
So what I am now going to do is open up a terminal window.
I'm going to go unzip that file.
So I'm going to go to my Downloads folder,
and I'm going to simply unzip learning-spring.
Now, the way I am going to do this
is I'm going to actually copy the files
and not the directory itself.
So I will navigate into learning-spring,
and I'm going to copy recursively everything
into the location where I'm going to do all of my development.
In this case,
it's in my code directory learning-spring.
So now if I navigate there,
you will see I have a structure.
Now yours may look a little bit differently.
I've got this one set up for get
because that's how I do my development.
You may not have the get folder,
but you will have get ignore.
You will have a help file.
You will have some Maven files
that come with spring boot initializr as it comes up.
Now I don't usually check those files into source control,
and they won't be included in the exercise files itself.
So if you need them,
you're going to have to keep them on your side.
Now what we're going to do
is I want to show you the power of this download
and that we can actually run this it exists today.
So if I go here and type maven package,
and allow it to run,
it's going to do a whole bunch of downloads
and then build this package.
So once it's done,
you should see a build success.
Now later on we're going to actually add some value
to this application,
but for right now,
let's just type java dash jar in the target directory.
We want to run learning spring jar file.
So now I have a JVM running,
on port 80 80 Tomcat has started,
and if I go back to my web browser
and I go to local host 80 80,
you will see that I get a Whitelabel Error Page with a 404.
Now this is actually coming out of Tomcat.
We have not configured an error page,
nor have we configured an index page,
but you can see that Tomcat is running
and has yielded a 404.
Now that's all we're going to do in this video,
but we have an application that runs
that has a whole bunch of dependencies
that we're going to check out in the next video.